---
layout: post
title: 29c3
date: 2012-12-30 19:52:59 +01:00
disqus: 0
---
Over six-thousand hackers, makers, dreamers, and activists from the all over the world visited the 29th Chaos Communications Congress this year. This was a new venue for the congress and the organizers where asking for more: higher-priced ticets to pay for the space, and more volunteers to keep everything working. They hit their mark rather spot-on, the experience from 28 cogresses previous showing-though. An amazing amount of insightful discourse and action reflected throughout the Congress Centrum Hamburg, beginning with Jacob Applebaum's keynote, "Not My Department", and though all the talks and workshops that followed. The people that gathered here want to make the world better; for people, robots, or the environment. I've never been to a conference of this type before, but, the fact more people used laptops (Thinkpads > Macs) than mobile said to me, "These are the people making the future, right now".


To dig into the community that gathers around the flag of the Chaos Communications Congress, Let's break down some of the observable groups.

* Hardware hackers are the most obvious: the blinking lights are dead give-away. They made up a noticeable portion of the assemblies that gathered selling and educating about electronics, robots, and methods.
* The activists, which came from all walks of life, some dressed in suits and others carrying everything they own on their back. Whether networking at improvised discussion circles or jetting from one hall to another, they were all looking for or making the next step in their revolution.
* The keyboard-jockeys rode in groups of many sizes, solo like myself or in posses of 5 to 30. You would only see their faces raised from the comforting glow of the laptop screen when loud noises interrupted their concentration.

That's about all the generalizations I will make. It only gets weirder further down the rabbit-hole.


My lack of comprehension of the German language was a barrier and a burden, thought I was still able to participate and interact with people awkwardly and with bad mimicry. Despite 60% of the talks being presented in English, the real conference was still German. The real conference being about the networking of participants with the other participants, and I didn't do that at all. My reclusive nature meant coming to the 29c3 and the Congress Centrum Hamburg was a mistake, but, I take some pride in making mistakes that can be learned from.


Links from the web-o-sphere:

* https://events.ccc.de
* http://www.flickr.com/photos/tags/29c3/
* https://twitter.com/search?q=%2329c3

